restructure & add new docs (#11)
waku-org/waku.guide: docs/Development Concepts/3.md

---
title: Protocols Explained by example
---

> ![Overview of how protocols interact in Waku v2.](./overview.png)

Reviewer: Did you generate the diagram yourself? Isntead, install mermaid so you can directly commit the diagram code: https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/diagrams

Reviewer: Will review this in more details once the diagram code is checked in.

Also feel free to remove this for now and we can have a dedicated PR for that.

Author: I picked the diagram from the [RFC](https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/10/#overview-of-protocol-interaction) as a PNG itself

We have six nodes, A-F.
The protocols initially mounted are indicated as such.
The PubSub topics `pubtopic1` and `pubtopic2` is used for routing and indicates that it is subscribed to messages on that topic for relay.
Ditto for Waku Store where it indicates that these messages are persisted on that node.

> 1. Node A creates a WakuMessage `msg1` with a ContentTopic `contentTopic1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Node A creates a WakuMessage `msg1` with a ContentTopic `/my-dapp/0/notifications/proto`.
```

I think it's better to provide a dummy content topic that looks like reality so a reader has a better picture of what it would look like.

Author: makes sense

> 2. Node F requests to get messages filtered by PubSub topic `pubtopic1` and ContentTopic `contentTopic1`.

Reviewer: For now, until relay scalability strategies are shipped, assume that everyone runs on the same default pubsub topic.
